Ads docs v2 (#817)
THEOplayer/documentation: ads/concepts/breaks.mdx

Preparing breaks under an event is only supported on **wallclock** channels. The event's date window defines the limits within which its breaks can be scheduled:

- The break's start must fall within the event window (`startDate` through `endDate`).
- The entire break must fit inside the window: the break's end (`start` + `duration`) must not pass the event's `endDate`.

A [cued break](#cued-breaks) is not checked against the window at creation, because its start is not known yet; punch it while the event is in progress so its start falls inside the window.

### Scheduling constraints

OptiView Ads enforces a few constraints when scheduling breaks. Each one protects the viewer experience:

- **Breaks cannot overlap.** A scheduled break cannot overlap another break on the same channel. Players render one break at a time; overlapping breaks would make the ad timeline ambiguous for your viewers.
- **The start cannot lie in the past.** A break must start ahead of the current live position of the channel. Players need to receive the break through the [Break Manifest](./break-manifest.mdx) before its start time; a break scheduled behind the live position would never be seen.

> - **Ad decisioning needs lead time.** Breaks delivered through an ad server integration such as [Google Ad Manager](../integrations/google/index.mdx) need a small extra margin before their start, so the ad decisioning can complete before the break begins. Scheduling closer than that margin is rejected rather than risking an empty break.

Reviewer: question: @MaartenRimaux do we have a recommended margin length? That would be a good thing to add here, if we do.

| `variant`      | The ad experience(s) to render: the layout and its assets, optionally targeted per device — see [Layouts](#layouts) and [Variants](#variants).                                                               |

### Event based triggers

Instead of a position on the timeline, a break's `start` can be a player event. Event-triggered breaks are described in the Break Manifest with `start: { "type": "event", "event": "<start|pause|end>", "delay": <seconds> }`.

The optional `delay` property postpones the break: it is the number of seconds (≥ 0, default `0`) that must elapse after the event before the break starts. How the delay counts depends on the event, as described below.

#### Start

A `start` break is a **pre-roll**: it fires when content playback begins, once per session. Use it to show an ad before (or shortly after) the viewer starts watching. With a `delay`, the break fires after the viewer has actually watched that many seconds of content — the delay counts played media time only, so pausing or seeking does not advance it.

#### Pause

> A `pause` break is a **pause ad**: it fires every time the viewer pauses playback and is dismissed when the viewer resumes. Use it to monetize the pause screen, typically with an image overlay. With a `delay`, the break appears after the viewer has been paused for that many seconds; resuming before the delay elapses cancels the pending break. When multiple `pause` breaks are defined, each pause shows the next one in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `pause` break is a **pause ad**: it fires every time the viewer pauses playback and is dismissed when the viewer resumes. Use it to monetize the pause screen, typically with an image overlay. With a `delay`, the break appears after the viewer has been paused for that many seconds. If the viewer resumes before the delay elapses, it cancels the pending break. When multiple `pause` breaks are defined, each pause shows the next one in order.
```

#### End

> An `end` break is a **post-roll**: it fires when playback has ended, once per session. Use it to show an ad after the content finishes. With a `delay`, the break fires that many seconds after playback ended; replaying before the delay elapses cancels the pending break.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `end` break is a **post-roll**: it fires when playback has ended, once per session. Use it to show an ad after the content finishes. With a `delay`, the break fires that many seconds after playback ended. Replaying the asset before the delay elapses will cancel the pending break.
```

```json
{
  "format": "lshape_ad",
  "assets": [
    {
      "type": "static",
      "mediaType": "video",
      "uri": "https://cdn.example.com/ads/spot.m3u8",
      "companion": {
        "type": "static",
        "mediaType": "image",
        "uri": "https://cdn.example.com/ads/lshape-backdrop.png"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### L-shape content

![L-shape content format](../assets/img/breaks/format-lshape-content.svg)

`format: "lshape_content"` is almost identical to [L-shape ad](#l-shape-ad), except that **your content keeps playing** in the main window instead of being replaced by an ad. The L-shaped backdrop itself is the advertisement, so it is a plain asset — no `companion` is needed.

This is the key difference between the two L-shapes: with `lshape_ad` the viewer watches an ad while a companion fills the backdrop; with `lshape_content` the viewer keeps watching your content while the backdrop is the ad.

```json
{
  "format": "lshape_content",
  "assets": [
    {
      "type": "static",
      "mediaType": "image",
      "uri": "https://cdn.example.com/ads/lshape-ad.png"
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Overlay

![Overlay format](../assets/img/breaks/format-overlay.svg)

> `format: "overlay"` renders a non-linear ad on top of the content, which keeps playing. In addition to `assets`, an overlay requires a `position` and a `size`, and accepts an optional `opacity`. All values are fractions of the player surface from `0` through `1`:

Reviewer: question: @MaartenRimaux This doesn't seem to match with the descriptions below:
`All values are fractions of the player surface from `0` through `1`:` 
It sounds like it would describe the `opacity` value, but not related to the player surface. Does this need to be updated? The code sample doesn't match the line items.
